All right, now first of all, I'd like to
get some background questions. What year
are you in college? Senior. And where do
you go to college? Stanford. And how many
years have you been here? All four. What
is your major field of study at Stanford?
Oh, it's mathematics. And what do you plan
to do after graduation? Computer
programming. In this area? Yeah, in San
Francisco. Where is your permanent address
when you're not living in San Francisco?
It's in Fresno, California. And where did
you go to high school? In Fresno, McLean
High School. Now, did you have much
contact with people of different racial or
ethnic backgrounds in the high school that
you went to? No, there was very little. It
was in the part of town where there
weren't very many people from other racial
groups. Now if you can think back to the
time before you came to Stanford as a
freshman, can you remember then what your
feeling towards civil rights was?
Well, I thought that everybody should have
the same rights that they didn't, but they
should have. People, you know, of all
races and groups. Now, would you say that
your opinion towards civil rights has
changed since coming to Stanford, and if
so, how? Well, I've felt more strongly in
favor of civil rights, especially since
it's become more of an issue since I've
been in college. Would you say that you
have become more aware of civil rights?
Yes, definitely. And what do you think
would be the main sources of awareness?
Well, a lot of it, like I said, has become
an issue. And on college campuses too, or
at Stanford, it sort of has become more of
an issue. There's more, you can't really
avoid the issue anymore. At home, my
parents were not exactly tolerant. And
they just, I mean, we just didn't discuss
it very much at home. But here there's
more discussion of it. Well, has your
exposure to the Civil Rights Movement been
mainly through the mass media, or through
talking with friends in the dormitory, or
other people that perhaps have gone to
work in the Civil Rights Movement? Mostly
through the mass media. Some discussion,
but not too much. A lot of it's just been,
yeah, reading about it, or hearing about
it on the news. Now, do you discuss
political or social or racial issues very
much with your family? Not too much. It's
not a subject that we bring up too much
because we don't agree. Now, to what
extent are you influenced by the feelings
of your parents? In other words, if you
were strongly in favor of something that,
of making some decision that they were
opposed to, would their opposition keep
you from making that decision? No. I'd
consider their point of view and see if
that had any bearing on, you know, I'd
appreciate their standpoint, but I'd make
my own decision regardless of theirs,
although I'd listen to what they had to
say. Are you financially dependent on your
parents?
Somewhat. Not entirely. And do you think
that this could be a factor in making you
go along with their wishes even though you
didn't agree with them? Well, not in any
major... I mean, not in any personal
thing. In things like going to college,
yes. But in any personal thing, no. Okay,
now you mentioned that your main exposure
to the Civil Rights Movement has been the
mass media. Now what would you say were
the main goals of the Civil Rights
Movement as you see it?
Well, to provide the same opportunities
for everybody, regardless of the color of
their skin or their, mostly that's the
issue, to give them all the rights that
they may not have now, but should have as
American citizens. Oh, what rights
specifically? Well, voting rights,
educational rights, employment
opportunities. Are you in favor of these
goals of the movement? as long as it's
done without making, forcing them into
some place where they don't, like saying,
well, this man has to be hired because
he's a Negro, regardless of whether he may
not be as qualified as some white person.
I mean, I think that they should be
considered, regardless of it, not because
they are a Negro or because they are
white, but because they are qualified. I
think there's sort of a tendency to say,
well, now you have to give him a job
because he's colored and you have to have
so many colored people or something. Well,
do you think that the movement is trying
to take into consideration the fact that
perhaps the Negro has been culturally
deprived and maybe he isn't as qualified?
I don't know. I don't think, I don't
really think that's anything,
that's a real apparent thing that they're
working at. They're working, it seems to
me like they're trying to put him in a
position, whether or not he may be as
qualified, to make him pretend that he's
he's qualified, whether or not he may be,
to say he should be qualified, even if he
may not be as well educated. What do you
think are the means employed by the Civil
Rights Movement and are you in favor of
these means?
Some of the means I'm in favor of and some
of them, I think, of course, part of it is
keeping interest. I think one of their big
things is keeping things stirred up so
people are always aware of this instead of
just sort of letting it go along as it has
for the last hundred years, saying, well,
we'll make this, we're all the same, but
then letting people discriminate. I think
that they're trying to keep it stirred up
so that there's active interest and people
become interested. But I think some of
these South Tantics, well like the
Scythians, sometimes they're stirring up
antagonism that is really going to not
help the cause by really forcing the issue
down the throats of the Southerners who
aren't quite willing to take it. What is
your opinion toward the employment of
civil disobedience? Do you feel that this
is right or wrong as a method?
I think that it... I don't really think
that it's right. You mean like fit-ins and
that sort of thing? I think are a little
strong because I think they create a lot
of antagonism that is not necessarily good
because it's those who are not
particularly in favor of civil rights are
not going to be condensed by the fact that
all these people are sort of sitting there
in their way or doing something to create
this antagonism. What kind of means do you
think should be employed?
That I'm not sure of. I mean, if I thought
I knew the answer, I think that a lot of
people would like to know it. I'd like to
talk to you. Now, as you may have read, a
lot of college students from the north,
well, from areas other than the south, are
going to Mississippi and Alabama and these
different areas to work in the civil
rights movement as freedom workers, voter
registration. Do you know any people that
have gone down south in this capacity? A
couple. If you think specifically of these
people, what is your opinion of these kind
of persons that go to the South? Well, of
course they're very active. They're people
who are very interested and aware of
what's going on. Although I think in some
cases they may be sort of... well, I think
they mean well, but don't quite exactly
know what they're going into. Sometimes
it's sort of the attitude of they know
what should be done, but don't always
realize all the circumstances, but are
kind of going down there with this fresh,
eager look, a little bit naive maybe,
thinking that they know what's right, and
they're going to go down there and solve
the problem for the world. Do you think
that the students involved in the Civil
Rights Movement are contributing anything
to the movement? And if so, what? I think
in some cases they can, yes. Like when
they're trying to educate the people and
to help them, help the Negro people
improve themselves. I think they can make
a valuable contribution, but sometimes I
think with such an influx that they also,
the southerners will think, or do think
that, you know, all these kids are coming
down there and telling us what to do. And
I think that they, there's a little too
much of it to where they're sort of, you
know, it's the attitude of well the north
is going to show the south how to run
their life, or or their lives and it can
create dissension. Now, do you know people
within your living group or on campus that
are sympathetic towards civil rights but
yet have not gone to the South? Yes. Now,
what would you think is the difference
between someone who is sympathetic towards
civil rights in favor of the means being
employed and the goals of the civil rights
movement and does not go south from the
student who does go south?
Well, part of it is it takes, you have to
be just a little, well, not carefully, but
you have to be willing to sort of, you
have to be very adventuresome to sort of
leave in the middle of school and run down
there to do something for a week or two. I
think it takes, if somebody really looking
for something, I think that those who go
down there are sort of looking for
something kind of exciting.
In addition to wanting to help, I think
they're sort of looking for something to
get in on. You know, they want to get in
on it. Whereas those who stay here, of
course someone would like to go and can't.
But those who really do go are, in a way,
are sort of, you know, it's kind of an
adventure in some cases. Do you think the
spirit of adventure characterizes the
people that you mentioned before that you
know that have gone south? Some of them.
Some of them, yes, and some of them maybe
not so much. I mean, some of them are...
They have to be, in a way, sort of
adventuresome because it is a long way to
go, to go down there for a week or two.
And it's something new and sort of
different. But there's a lot more to it
than that. What do you think it involves
besides the spirit of adventure? Well, a
basic belief in what they're doing. I
mean, it's sort of an idealistic thing
that they think that they can... to want
to help, but it involves... I mean, they
have to honestly want to do something
because it's a lot of trouble to go down
there. And it's... they're people who are
really interested and concerned. How about
people that really seem interested and
concerned and speak in favor of civil
rights, but yet they don't take that final
step of going down south? Well, you know,
perhaps some of them just aren't able to
go in some cases, or else they don't
really think that they could, there's
anything that they personally could
contribute by going down there. I think
that that's, in some situations, is
probably the case, that they feel that if
they, you know, they don't have anything
to positively contribute personally by
going down there. Now, if you had the
opportunity to go to the South as a civil
rights worker, would you go? I don't think
so, no. And why would you not go? Well,
first of all, my parents would just about
tell me to forget to come back. I mean, I
just hate to... I mean, if I really wanted
to go, I'd go anyway. But it would really
cause a lot of trouble. But besides that,
I don't think that there's that much that
I, as one person, could contribute down
there. That I wouldn't know what I was
going into. to. And exactly, I don't think
I know the whole situation. And I'd like
to go down and see the situation, but I
don't know if I would be qualified to
really contribute anything myself. Well,
what kind of qualities do you think that
SNCC and CORE and the NAACP and these
different groups look for in a person?
What kind of abilities to be performed in
a civil rights worker? Well, it has to be
somebody really willing to make the
sacrifice of getting down there. I think
they pay a lot of their own expenses. And,
you know, give up a week or two at school,
which a lot of people would like to do if
they could. But really it is a sacrifice
to go down and work. and it has to be
somebody who really believes in what
they're doing, enough that they wouldn't
get discouraged. And yet I think or at
least I hope they're looking for people
who aren't going to go down to cause
trouble but are going down there sincerely
to work and not just do a little bit of
rabble-rousing. Now you speak in terms of
students that go down for a week or two
off school. How about students that go
down for the entire summer to give their
time, Would you ever consider this
possibility? Well, not, I never of course
have had a summer when I could just go
down, but for myself, I don't think I'd do
it. Yeah, I'm pretty sure I wouldn't
because it's a long time to go down. And
like I said, I don't know if I'd have that
much to contribute once I got down there.
Now, have you ever been involved in any
civil rights activities on a local level?
No. Would you foresee the possibility in
the future of becoming involved in civil
rights on a local level?
Oh, perhaps. It would depend on what it
was. If it was something that I thought
was valuable without being something like
a sit-in. and I'd consider it, yes. But do
you think that it's more valuable for
these college students to go to the South
where the civil rights problem has been
focused so strongly? Or do you think that
it is better for them to work in their own
hometowns on problems of civil rights? I
think they might do better in their own
hometowns where they know the situation a
little better and are more known
themselves and more apt to be accepted by
the community than they would be in, say,
a southern community. I think their
contribution could be a little more
positive at home. Do you think that the
civil rights movement in the South has had
the effect of making people more
interested and more concerned with their
own civil rights problems in their
respective communities, or do you think
that it's had the effect, the opposite
effect, of having people shift their own
blame to the people of the South?
Well, I think sort of both things have
happened, depending on the area and
depending on the people. there are those
who, it seems to me, kind of are sweeping
it under the rug and saying, well, they've
got the problem and, you know, we really
don't have much of a problem, but yet
there's a lot, just a lot more interest in
general in the problem, and people all
over, even in the North, beginning to
realize that they have a few racial
problems of their own. But I think both
things have happened,
depending on the area and the group. there
seems to be, like in California, there
seems to be a lot more, well, interest,
say, in San Francisco and Los Angeles
there, and even throughout the valley.
There's been more interest involved, like
in Fresno, in the schools, a little more
integration, because all the, sort of,
there's one side of town, and then there's
the other side of town, And there's one
high school that's predominantly Negro
and, well, Chinese and everything. But
it's really a mixed, and the rest of them
are predominantly white. Recently there's
been a movement to mix them all around.
But this sort of thing has just happened
in the last couple of years. And I think
more of that is going to come up in a lot
of areas. Do you think that you personally
have any responsibility in the Civil
Rights Movement? And if so, what? Well, I
think that I have a responsibility to do
what I can. but then that's sort of vague
to at least try personally to do, I mean
to be sympathetic toward all groups and
help them, you know, even in personal
contact and not to personally discriminate
and to try, of course, Of course, I don't
know if I could go out and convince very
many people, but I think, just in my own
personal affairs, to do what I can. But I
don't know, I don't feel that I
necessarily should go down and start
telling other people what to do just
because I would if I thought there were
anything valuable would come out of it but
I think there might be a lot of
resentment. Do you think that the progress
of the Civil Rights Movement would
continue at the same pace that it is now
if there weren't any students going to the
South?
No, it wouldn't continue at the same pace.
But and if there weren't any, if it
weren't being pushed right now, things
would stay pretty much like they have for
the last 100 years. They advance more
rapidly because everything is advancing
more rapidly. But I think that had it
been, the movement been maybe just not
quite so strong, it might have been a
little, well there had been a little less
bloodshed and a little less antagonism. It
had to be pushed, but I think it's been
pushed a little bit too hard and a little
bit too many people have been going down
and saying oh we're going to straighten
things out for you you don't know what
you're doing down here then I think that
maybe half the students could have gone
down and it would have worked out a little
better do you think then minimizing the
numbers would have minimized the amount of
bloodshed and turmoil well minimizing the
whole not just the numbers but the
intensity if it it had been just a little
less intense, the whole program, I think
would have eliminated some of the real
bloodshed. Would you say then that you are
in favor of not going forth as strongly as
the movement presently is at the sacrifice
of taking longer for these civil rights to
be realized?
Yes, I think so, because I think that at
the same time it's realizing the civil
rights there's a lot of, it's kind of
messy. It would be anyway, but I think
that it may have taken a little bit
longer, but wouldn't have hurt so many
people in the meanwhile. I don't know. I
mean that's the way it appears to me and
that may not be true, but that's sort of
the way I would look at it. Okay, now in
switching back again to your family
background, what is your father's
occupation? He's in the lumber business,
going into road construction. And is your
mother employed? No, she does my father's
bookkeeping.
Now, have your parents expressed any
opinions on the Civil Rights Movement
since they've been reading about it in the
newspapers and seeing things on
television? Oh yes. My father thinks that
there are a lot of troublemakers in the
South and they only leave things alone.
That it was alright and eventually
everything would have turned out alright
in 200 years I guess. And my father really
doesn't have much to say because I think
that he probably doesn't agree with her
but it's easier to keep quiet than to
start a fight so. Have you ever had the
opportunity to take question with your
mother's pronouncements on the situation
or do you assume your father's position?
Well, I, a time or two, discussed the
subject but we both have our own opinions
so we just, I mean I found out their,
their sentiments and just sort of left it
at that. But do you find that you
generally disagree on the goals of the
movement or on the means of the movement?
It's mostly on the means. The idea, the
disagreement and the feeling most of my
family, my mother's side of the family.
Because my father's side of the family I
never see. But their feeling is mostly
that it's being pushed too hard. Of
course, they're also cold water
conservatives, so. I mean, they're just
very conservative on the whole thing and
they think that it's being pushed and that
you just can't do it that way, that you
just kind of let it gradually happen over
several hundred years, I guess. Well, if
someone were just to come up and ask you
point blank, what is your opinion of the
Civil Rights Movement? Are you in favor of
it or not in favor of it? how would you
answer? I would say that I was in favor of
it, yeah. And in terms of the means of the
movement?
Generally, I agree with it. I mean, like I
said, I have disagreements with it, but on
a whole, I think it's, it seemed in the
right direction. And do you have any
opinions or pictures of the kind of people
that are involved in the civil civil
rights movement that I impress you either
favorably or disfavorably? Well, now I
have several different impressions. I
mean, I think that, well, I'm sure that
there are people who are, most of the
people are very sincerely believe in it
and are very working hard to do what they
think is best. I think there are
unfortunately those who who are sort of in
it to see what, you know, for a little bit
of excitement or because it's the thing to
do or to cause a little trouble or
something. But I think on the whole, it's
those people who really mean well and who
are trying to do as best they can. Well,
in terms of values and commitment and such
toward the situation, how would you think
that these people, specifically the ones
you know, have gone south would differ
from you? Well, among other things,
they probably just feel a little more
personally involved in the situation,
enough to go down there. I mean, it is
sort of a long ways from here. And I tend
to be a little apathetic. And I think that
they're just more vitally interested in
it, enough to really run down there and do
something. What risks... Oh, I'm sorry, go
ahead. Oh, go ahead. I forgot. I'm sorry
for interrupting you. What risks do you
think would be involved in going to the
site?
Well, now the risk would... Well, there
have been a few people disappeared,
although I think that's... I mean, I think
that's sort of one or two instances. I
don't think that, I don't really think
that I would expect to be shot when I was
down there. But, um, there is of course
the risk of being thrown in jail, the risk
of running into a lot of antagonism and a
lot of ill feeling. But I don't, maybe
getting a rock thrown at you or something.
but I don't think there's any huge risk as
far as personal
injury or anything. The risk I don't think
as a person is too great. Do you think the
possibility of physical violence to your
person, of discomfort in terms of living
conditions or possibly being arrested of
the erratic schedule that a civil rights
worker would have to keep. Do you think
that these factors would be any sort of a
strong influence toward making you decide
not to go? Well, I'd consider them if I
thought that they were factors. I think
that, I mean, there would be hardships. I
might have to sleep in the car or
something. But I think that that wouldn't
be the main thing I'd consider. What would
be the main thing? Whether or not I could
really, it would really be worth my while
to go down there. I mean, if I thought I
was going to get shot at, I really don't
think I'd go, because I don't particularly
want to dodge bullets, but I don't think
that's the case. And I think the
consideration would be more whether or not
I could do something once I got there.
Well, you just stated that one of your
main considerations would be whether or
not it would be worth your while to go.
Now, what do you think you personally
could derive from the situation?
Well, that I think that I could contribute
something. It would be worth something
that I could do here. It would be worth
leaving what I'm doing here to go down if
I thought I could contribute more there
and in terms of you know the time I lose
here if I thought I could contribute
something valuable enough in relation to
to what I lose by spending some time down
there. What would you lose by spending
time down there? Well I'd lose either well
Well, actually, I'd lose money if I were
working, or time in school, plus all the
trouble of getting there. Anything that
would... I mean, it is a long ways away.
And just the whole trouble of getting
ready and going and leaving whatever I
might be doing here. I don't know. It
would depend on what I was doing at the
time, what I'd miss. Now is there any
statement that you'd like to make
concerning civil rights that I have not
asked you about? Not that I can think of.
Alrighty, well thank you very much for
your time. I appreciate it.